[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID HATCHER
CHILDRESS: My name
is David Hatcher Childress, and
I'm actually an archaeologist.
I travel around the
world in search of lost
cities and ancient mysteries.
My name is David
Hatcher Childress,
and my area of research
is ancient civilizations
and megaliths.
I'm an author on a
wide variety of books,
of over 20 different books,
on mysteries of the past,
lost cities, the Olmecs,
megaliths in South America
and all over the world.
I was born in France, actually,
but my parents are Americans
and they like to travel.
And when I was
younger we traveled
all over Europe
and also to Turkey
and to Mexico and other places.
And I remember climbing
the pyramids of Mexico
City as a little kid, and
going to Stonehenge, and Carnac
in France, or places like that.
So I've always been
interested in ancient history
and lost cities and
mysteries of the past.
I went to high school
in Missoula, Montana,
and I was a grocery
bagger at a supermarket.
And I would buy books
from the supermarket.
Some of the books
that I would buy
were Erich Von Daniken's
books, "Chariots of the Gods?,"
and "The Gold of
the Gods," which
was about these mysterious
tunnels in South America.
And I liked reading those books.
But I think what was interesting
about archaeological mysteries
was that unlike a
UFO, or some Bigfoot
sighting, or some
other oddball event,
with archaeological
mysteries these are things
that you can visit at any
time of your choosing.
And they're are giant
structures that generally
aren't going anywhere.
And unlike a UFO event,
again, or a Bigfoot sighting,
if there is some
mystery associated
with, say, some giant pyramid
or wall or statues someplace,
this is something that you can
actually go and investigate
yourself.
And that intrigued me.
I already liked to
travel and go to places
and was relatively well-versed
in many of these sites,
although there are so many.
I'm still learning about all
kinds of interesting sites
around the world.
I think of myself as a
scientifically-minded person.
I don't just believe everything
that's strange or weird.
I want to see proof of
claims that people make.
And I'm the kind of person
who likes to go and see
things for myself.
And so that's what got me going.
And I began to travel around the
world starting in the mid '70s.
I returned to the
United States, and I
wanted to write some
books and keep traveling.
But at that point I wrote a book
called "The Hitchhiker's Guide
to Africa and Arabia."
This was mid-1980s, and this
was just as Apple computers were
first coming out and
the first laser printers
and things like that.
And it was the beginning
of desktop publishing.
And at that point, I started
my own publishing company,
Adventures Unlimited Press,
realizing that this was a time
to be my own publisher.
And it was a difficult
time, but then I
began publishing books on
my "Lost Cities" series,
books on anti-gravity,
books on the Olmecs,
books on South America,
on ancient technology
in Peru and Bolivia.
Plus I wrote books on time
travel and Nikola Tesla.
What really got me going
on my latest book, which
is called "The Lost
World of the Cham,"
was I made a trip to Vietnam.
And on that trip I
was visiting Da Nang
and I visited the Champa
city of My Son, which
is there in central Vietnam.
And I was very
surprised at the things
that I encountered there
because what was at My Son
were things that I hadn't
expected to see, really.
And that was, first of
all, megalithic building
with granite and basalt,
and also something
very important to me, which
are these distinctive keystone
cuts.
And so when I saw the
keystone on cuts at My Son,
I immediately recognized them
as the same keystone cuts
on structures I had seen
in Peru and Bolivia.
And I've also noticed these
keystone cuts at other sites,
as well.
But to me this was
very important.
And I realized that these
Cham people, and also
known as the Champa,
were a civilization that
was a megalithic civilization,
was using keystone cuts just
like in South America and
in Egypt and other areas,
and that they were these
great seafarers who
built huge cities
all over Vietnam,
and I discovered other places.
And they used a base of islands,
known as the Cham Islands.
The Cham Islands
are a small group
of islands off of the
coast of central Vietnam.
And although there are not
megalithic structures there,
those islands were
a place where,
I discovered as I
started my research,
this giant fleet of ships would
congregate several times a year
at the Cham Islands.
And then these fleets
would then go out
into the Pacific or
different places.
They would go north
to China, they
would go south to
Java and Sumatra,
they would go to India,
and even, apparently,
across the Indian
Ocean to East Africa.
And I quickly concluded
that the Cham were also
going across the Pacific,
and were probably
somehow involved with the
Olmecs of ancient Mexico.
Also, the mysterious
San Agustin culture
in Colombia, also
cultures in Peru
like the structures we see in
Cusco and Machu Picchu, too,
or Ollantaytambo, because we
find these keystone cuts there.
So once I had discovered the
Cham, and what was going on
with their megalith
building, and particularly
the keystone cuts, I
realized that there
was some connection here between
the Cham and South America
and all of Southeast Asia.
So this began what was
years of research for me.
A new city had become available
for tourists a few years ago,
which is in the very
northern part of Cambodia.
It's right on the border
of Cambodia and Thailand.
And that is a mountainous
area with big high mountains
that are jungle covered,
and big valleys.
And the Thai government and
the Cambodian government
have had a dispute
for decades over who
controls this area of
very northern Cambodia.
And the thing is, there's
a megalithic city there
on top of this mountain.
And that city is
called Preah Vihear,
and until just a few
years ago no tourists
could visit Preah Vihear
because of the conflict
between Thailand and Cambodia.
The United Nations
ruled in a final ruling,
and they had actually
made this ruling decades
before but Thailand
had not accepted it,
and they said Preah
Vihear is in Cambodia
and it's not part of Thailand.
And at that point,
the Thai military
stopped shelling the
Cambodian military,
which they were on two
mountainsides across a valley.
And once that conflict stopped,
the Cambodian government
began to allow tourists
to go to Preah Vihear,
although you still had to
go with a military escort
to the mountain.
And you had to register.
So I was able to do all this,
and I visited Preah Vihear.
And what I found at Preah
Vihear also astonished me.
Here was a megalithic
city built out of granite
on top of a mountain.
And also at Preah Vihear
were the same keystone cuts
that I was seeing at
My Son in Vietnam.
And those are
basically T-shaped.
A keystone like that
would be a double T
because the keystone has to
span two different stones.
Molten metals are then poured
into these cuts to make a span.
So it's either
usually a T-shaped cut
or it's an hourglass type cut.
So they had this at
Preah Vihear, too.
What is also at Preah
Vihear, and much of that city
is in ruins, is there is a
big wall of three windows.
And it's a megalithic
wall built out of granite.
And that wall is virtually
identical to a famous wall
at Machu Picchu in Peru.
And that wall is known as
the Wall of Three Windows,
and it's a part of Machu
Picchu that's at the very top.
So I realize that Preah Vihear
was almost identical to Machu
Picchu in Peru.
They were very, very similar.
So once I had seen Preah
Vihear and with all my travels,
I realized that, yes, there
was a total connection
between the Cham
of Vietnam, also
Cambodia, being named after
Cambodia, after the Cham.
And in fact, it's known that
Cham people and the Cham
language was spoken in Cambodia.
But as I began to
research, what surprised
me was that there's not really
a good prehistory of Southeast
Asia.
When we look at ancient India
or ancient China or Samaria
or Egypt or even
ancient Peru and Mexico,
we're able to identify
civilizations going back
to easily 1000 BCE,
2000 BCE, even 3000 BCE.
And during the time of just,
say, 500 BC, in ancient India
and in China all kinds
of stuff was going on.
This was around
the time of Ashoka,
the great emperor of northern
India who became a Buddhist.
And he sent people all over
the world to spread Buddhism.
And this was about
300 BC, or so.
But as I researched the
Cham and the Champa,
what really surprised me
was that in Southeast Asia,
there was no
civilization that anyone
had identified that really goes
back to any time before Christ.
The Champa themselves are
said to really exist around,
the earliest inscription they
find, which is at My Son,
is around 192 AD.
So modern historians,
what I discovered,
are placing the
Cham and the Champa
in just a very small
part of central Vietnam.
And areas like Cambodia and
southern Thailand and Malaysia
and Sumatra and Java and Borneo,
in all these areas of Southeast
Asia, according to
mainstream historians,
there is no civilization there.
There's nothing they
can speak about.
They can't ascribe any
cities or structures
to any civilization that
is BC in Southeast Asia.
That really astonished me
that essentially the history
of Southeast Asia was
completely missing.
What was going on in 500 BC or
even 200 BC in Southeast Asia
is completely unknown.
And mainstream historians
are essentially
saying that nothing was
happening in Southeast Asia,
and that there were no empires
or cohesive civilizations that
were ruling this area.
And that didn't
make sense to me.
I couldn't see how
that could possibly be.
And so as my research
into the Cham and Champa
extended, what I realized
was that all of Southeast
Asia, from Sumatra to Java to
Malaysia and southern Thailand
and, of course, Cambodia and
southern Vietnam and islands
like southern
Philippines, all this area
was controlled by the Cham.
And in fact, in my
research I found
that the Cham language
was known to be
spoken in northern Sumatra.
So here we have,
at the very least,
the Cham are not
just in Vietnam,
they're in Sumatra, too.
There are structures.
One interesting structure is
in Java, it's called Borobudur.
Borobudur is probably
the main tourist site
today on the island
of Java in Indonesia.
Borobudur is a gigantic
megalithic mandala
built as a mountain.
It was covered in a lava
flow, actually, at one point
and then became ruins.
And it was rediscovered
in the mid-1800s.
But even today, no one
knows who built Borobudur.
It's a tourist site.
When you get to Borobudur,
you walk up onto this mandala.
You're supposed to walk it
in a certain way around it,
as walking a mandala.
And you get to the
top and there's
these small Buddhas sitting
in these small stupas that
look like flying saucers.
And each of these small
flying saucers stupas
has a statue of the
Buddha inside it.
It's very well made,
every statue is perfect.
It's really excellent
stonework of the best kind.
And there are also keystone
cuts at Borobudur, as well,
and they're hourglass
type keystone cuts.
The whole keystone cut
controversy is, I think,
very important.
What keystone cuts are,
they're an unusual way
of holding blocks
of stone together.
And when you have
smaller blocks of stone,
walls like that can pull apart,
earthquakes can destroy them,
and the keystone
cuts and the metal
clamps that go in them can
help hold walls together.
But it's an unusual way
of fitting stonework.
And it's a very advanced
way of fitting stonework.
And it requires
metallurgical skills
that are beyond stone cutting.
So not only are you
quarrying blocks of stone
that can weigh many
tons, and even hundreds
of tons in some cases.
They're are huge
blocks of stones,
ones that we would never work
with today or even try to move.
But still, these blocks of stone
will have these keystone cuts
cut in them.
And then, when it's properly
done and constructed,
molten metals are
poured into the cuts
to create these long clamps.
My point is that this is not
a normal way of fitting stone
blocks together.
It's an unusual
way, a unique way.
And so wherever we would see
that, we're seeing construction
by people who are using
the same architect,
the same engineers are
building these things
because they're using
a technique that's
unique, in a sense.
Keystone cuts and the metallic
clamps that go in them
are not something that people
would independently invent.
It's a technique
and technology that
has to be brought to each site.
We don't know how old
this technology goes,
but certain temples in Egypt
also have these keystone cuts.
I was also in Ethiopia
a few years ago
to see the obelisks and
the megaliths there.
And I noticed the
keystone cuts as well.
And in fact, the metallic
clamps were still there.
What makes this really
important with the Cham
and all of these situations
and sites all over the world
that have these keystone
cuts is that they're
in very different places.
They're high in the
Andes Mountains,
they're in jungle cities
in Southeast Asia,
they're in the
mountains of Ethiopia,
they're in Greece, as
well, and other sites
in India or Cambodia.
Mainstream archaeologists
and anthropologists
are telling us that ancient
civilizations are disconnected.
And this would be at the
University of California
or Oxford University
or something.
They're saying,
oceans are barriers.
People can't just
get into the boat
and cross the Atlantic Ocean.
This is the dogma we're
being taught in the highest
universities by
our PhD lecturers.
This is known as
isolationism, and the other
is called diffusionism.
So isolationism is what
we're being taught.
Cultures are isolated from
each other, particularly
the cultures in South
America or Mexico,
they're isolated from
Southeast Asia or Egypt.
There's not
trans-Pacific voyages
connecting these countries,
according to those historians.
But what we're seeing here
with the keystone cuts
and with the Cham is a
completely different story,
and that is what's
called diffusionism.
And that is that oceans are not
barriers, oceans are highways.
The easy way to go
to someplace is not
to walk there but
to get in a boat.
But even today, look at
our use of airplanes and we
have spaceships and
everything, but still
most of the cargo and travel,
if it's from continent
to continent, is done by ships.
And this is what the Cham
had, giant fleets of ships.
And these giant fleet
of ships were running
all over Southeast Asia.
There's really a historical
schism that's really going on
here, and it has to do with
the keystone cuts but also
other things too, such
as cranial deformation.
I also did a book
some years ago,
and I coauthored it, about
head deformation and people
elongating their heads.
And this is also
like keystone cuts,
it's something that occurs
in very diverse places all
over the world.
It's on Pacific Islands,
it's done in South America,
it was done in Mexico, it
was done in Korea and China,
Egyptians did it, the Kurds
in northern Iraq did it,
the Hungarians did it, we found
these elongated heads in Malta.
So why is it that the
mainstream archaeologists
historians don't want to talk
about cranial deformation?
Well, here's why.
Cranial deformation is in
all of these different places
around the world.
And it's an unusual thing to do.
And if you were to discuss
in any meaningful way cranial
deformation, you
would have to discuss
that is in South
America, it's in Mexico,
it's in the Pacific Northwest,
it's on Vanuatu, it's in Egypt,
it's in Sumeria, it's on Malta.
And then you would
have to somehow relate
all of these coneheads
with their elongated skulls
from all of these places
from around the world,
and you would have to
relate them to each other.
And that is what mainstream
historians do not
want to do because
none of these places
can actually be connected.
What I'm learning from the
Cham and from all these studies
is that the whole world was
connected in ancient times
and people were traveling
across both the Atlantic
and the Pacific Ocean
and the Indian Ocean.
And in fact, who the Cham
were is really significant.
The Cham, although
they were in Vietnam
and they interacted a lot with
China, they were really Hindus.
Their culture that they
had was completely Hindu.
They worshiped Shiva and
all of the Hindu gods,
Parvati, their statuary,
everything was Hindu.
Almost identical to what you
would see in India, really.
But the Cham did something also
unusual, they were Shaivites.
Shaivites wear their
hair long, they
grow very long hair, the men.
And then they tie it up on
top of their head in a bun.
So when you go to Easter Island
and you see the statues there,
they are Shaivites.
They have long ears, which is
how Shiva and Buddha are always
depicted, with very
long ear lobes.
And they're
apparently coneheads,
as well, those statues.
But on Easter Island,
what they would do
is they would quarry the giant
statues at a volcano sort
of in the center of the island.
And then they would
move the statues
to the outer edge of the
island facing inland,
and then it would put a red
top knot on top of the head.
And it's the same thing of
the Shaivites tying their hair
as a bun on top of the head.
So that's where I realized that
the statues at Easter Island
are also of the Cham.
I really feel that
it's important for us
to understand the ancient
past and where we've been,
where we've come from, what our
civilization was in the past,
and how worldwide it was.
And by understanding
the past it helps
us understand who we are
now and our connection
to people all over the world
and to so many cultures.
And by understanding
who we are now
and where we've
been in the past,
I believe this can help
us as we go forward,
and, ultimately, how
our future as the United
States and the whole world
is one where we are all one,
we're coming out of largely
the same ancient culture
and hopefully we will go
forward in that same way.
[THEME MUSIC]